.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: mail.1,v $ $Revision: 3.5.7.5 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/03 14:25:08 $
.\"
.\" (c) Copyright 1990, 1991, 1992 OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. 
.\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
.\" OSF/1 Release 1.0.4
.\"build rmifdef
.\"Sterling: Added changes from L. Murry. We do not use OSF
.\"mail.
.TH mail 1
.SH NAME
\*Lmail\*O, \*Lbinmail\*O \- Sends and displays messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.SS Reading Mail
.sS
\*Lmail\*O [\*L\-epq\*O] [\*L\-bhr\*O] [\*L\-f\*O \*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.PP
.sS
\*Lbinmail\*O [\*L\-epq\*O] [\*L\-bhr\*O] [\*L\-f\*O \*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.PP
.SS Sending Mail
.sS
\*Lmail\*O [\*L-d\*O] [\*L-r \*Vname\*O] [\*L-h \*VN\*O] \*Vuser\*O ...  \*O[\*L< \*Vfile\*O]
.PP
\*Lbinmail\*O [\*L-d\*O] [\*L-r \*Vname\*O] [\*L-h \*VN\*O] \*Vuser\*O ...  \*O[\*L< \*Vfile\*O]
.sE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "mail command"
.iX "binmail command"
.iX "sending" "messages"
.iX "messages" "sending"
.iX "mail" "sending"
The \*Lmail\*O command writes to standard output all stored mail
addressed to your login name, one message at a time, or sends
a mail message to another user or users.
.\"  Begin Digital-specific information 
Another name for the \*Lmail\*O command is \*Lbinmail\*O.
.\"  End Digital-specific information 
.PP
Following each message, \*Lmail\*O prompts you with a
\*L?\*O question mark.
Press \*L<Return>\*O to display the next mail
message, or enter one of the
subcommands that control the disposition of the message.
.PP
When sending mail, you specify users, and then
\*Lmail\*O reads a message from standard input until you press
the End-of-File key sequence or
enter a line containing only a \&. (dot).
It prefixes this message with the sender's name and the date and time of
the message (its \*Vpostmark\*O) and adds this message to the file
\*L/usr/spool/mail/\*Vuser\*O for each \*Vuser\*O specified
on the command line.
.PP
Usually, \*Vuser\*O is a name recognized by the \*Llogin\*O
command.  If the system does not recognize one or more of the specified
users or if \*Lmail\*O is interrupted during input,
\*Lmail\*O saves messages in the file \*L$HOME/dead.letter\*O
to allow for editing and resending.
.PP
The action of \*Lmail\*O can be modified in two ways
by manipulating \*L/usr/spool/mail/\*Vuser\*O:
.ML
.LI
The default permission assignment for other users is read-only.
If you change this permission assignment to read/write or to
All Permissions Denied, the system preserves the file, even when it is
empty, in order to maintain the desired permissions; you will not be able to
remove the file.
.LI
You can edit the file to contain the following as its first line:
.iS
Forward to \*Vperson\*O
.iE
This causes all messages sent to \*Vuser\*O to be sent to
.iX "forwarding" "mail"
\*Vperson\*O instead.
The \*LForward to\*O feature is especially useful for sending all
of a person's mail to a particular machine in a network environment.
.LE
.PP
To specify a recipient on a remote system, prefix the system name and
an \*L!\*O (exclamation mark) to
\*Vuser\*O.  See the \*Luucp\*O command for a
detailed discussion of how to address remote systems.  Also see \*Lmailx\*O
and \*Lsendmail\*O for other network connections.
.\"Added user configurable locking info for Sterling.
.\"12/03/93, T. Wolklin
.PP
DEC OSF/1 provides locking for the mailbox files.  The style of
locking used depends on how it is set in the \*Lrc.config\*O file.  For
more information, see the
\*ENetwork Configuration\*O
manual.
.SS Subcommands
The following subcommands control message disposition.
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\(pl\*O"
Displays the next mail message (the same as pressing \*L<Return>\*O).
.LI "\*L\-\*O"
Displays the previous message.
.LI "\*Ld\*O"
Deletes the current message and displays the next message.
.LI "\*Lp\*O"
Displays the current message again.
.LI "\*Ls\*O [\*Vfile\*O]"
Saves the message in \*Vfile\*O
instead of in the default mail file \*L$HOME/mbox\*O.
.LI "\*Lw\*O [\*Vfile\*O]"
Saves the message, without its postmark, in
\*Vfile\*O instead of in the default mail file, \*L$HOME/mbox\*O.
.\" Begin Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.\" Changed argument and description per QAR 9010.
.LI "\*Lm\*O \*Vusers\*O"
Forwards the current message to \*Vusers\*O.  If the forward
was successful, deletes that message and then displays the next message.
.\" End Digital-specific information CORRECTION
.LI "\*Lq\*O"
Writes any mail not yet deleted to
\*L/usr/spool/mail/\*Vuser\*O and exits.
Pressing the End-of-File key sequence has the same effect.
.LI "\*Lx\*O"
Exit, leaving the mail file unchanged.
.LI "\*L!\*Vsystem_command\*O"
Runs the specified command.
.LI "\*L*\*O (asterisk)"
Displays a subcommand summary.
.LI "\*Lhelp\*O"
Displays a subcommand summary.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
.SS Reading Mail
You can use the following flags when invoking the \*Lmail\*O command to
read mail:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-e\*O"
Does not display any messages.
This flag causes \*Lmail\*O to return an exit value of 0 (zero) if the
user has mail and an exit value of 1 if the user has no mail.
.LI "\*L\-f \*Vfile\*O"
Saves mail to and reads mail from \*Vfile\*O
instead of the default mail file, \*L/usr/spool/mail/\*Vuser\*O.
.LI "\*L\-p\*O"
Displays mail without prompting for a disposition code.
This flag does not delete, copy, or forward any messages.
.LI "\*L\-q\*O"
Causes \*Lmail\*O to exit when you press the Interrupt key sequence.
Normally, pressing the Interrupt key sequence stops only the
message being displayed.
(In this case, the next message sometimes does not display until you
enter the \*Lp\*O subcommand.)
.LI "\*L\-b\*O"
Displays mail in first-in, first-out order.  The default is last-in,
last-out.
.LI "\*L\-r\*O"
Alternate and obsolete form of the \*L\-b\*O flag.
.IP
If \*L\-r\*O is the first flag specified, send mail mode is assumed.
.LI "\*L\-h\*O"
Alternate and obsolete form of the \*L\-b\*O flag.
.IP
If \*L\-h\*O is the first flag specified, send mail mode is assumed.
.LE
.SS Sending Mail
You can use the following flags when invoking the \*Lmail\*O command to
send mail:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-h \*VN\*O"
Sets the hop count to \*VN\*O. The hop count is incremented every time
the mail is processed.  When it reaches a limit, the mail is returned
with an error message, the victim of an aliasing loop.  If you do not
specify this flag, received lines in the message are counted.
.LI "\*L\-r \*Vname\*O"
Sets the name of the \*LFrom: \*Vuser\*O field (that is, the sender of
the mail).  The \*L\-r\*O flag can only be used by trusted users (normally
root, daemon, and network) or if the person you are trying to become is
the same as the person you are.
.LI "\*L\-d\*O"
Informs \*Lbinmail\*O to actually deliver the mail instead of passing it
off to the \*Lsendmail\*O program for delivery.
.LE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.AL
.LI
To display your mail, enter:
.iS
mail
\*O\c
.iE
After the most recent message is displayed, a \*L?\*O (question
mark) indicates that \*Lmail\*O is waiting for one of the
subcommands explained previously (\*L\(pl\*O, \*L\-\*O, \*Ld\*O, \*Lp\*O,
and so on).  Enter \*Lhelp\*O or
an \*L*\*O (asterisk) to list the subcommands available.
.LI
If the End-of-File key sequence is \*L<Ctrl-d>\*O, you send
mail to other users by entering:
.iS
mail tom rachel
Do not forget the meeting tomorrow at 9:30.
<Ctrl-d>
\*O\c
.iE
In this example, the system
mails the message \*CDo not forget the meeting
tomorrow at 9:30.\*O to the users \*Ltom\*O and \*Lrachel\*O.
The End-of-File key sequence (in this case, \*L<Ctrl-d>\*O) indicates the
end of the message, but it is not sent with the text.
.LI
To send a file to another user, enter:
.iS
mail fran < proposal
\*O\c
.iE
This command sends the contents of the file \*Lproposal\*O to \*Lfran\*O.
.LI
To save a message to the default mail file, enter:
.iS
mail
\*O\c
.iE
This command displays each message mailed to you.
Press \*L<Return>\*O after the \*C?\*O prompt until the desired
message is displayed.
.IP
When the appropriate message is displayed, enter:
.iS
s
\*O\c
.iE
The message is saved in the default mail file, \*L$HOME/mbox\*O.
.LI
To save a message to a specific file, enter:
.iS
mail
\*O\c
.iE
This command displays each message mailed to you.
Press \*L<Return>\*O after the \*C?\*O prompt until the desired
message is displayed.
When the appropriate message is displayed, enter:
.iS
s mycopy
\*O\c
.iE
This command saves the message in a file named \*Lmycopy\*O in the
current directory, rather than in the default mail file.
.LE
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
For information about exit values, see the \*LFLAGS\*O section.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The \*Lbinmail\*O program is not RFC 822 compliant.  This affects
messages that begin withlines that look like header lines.  Header lines
begin with a \*Vstring\*O followed by a colon (:) (such as those found in the
\*L/etc/passwd\*O file).  Use \*Lmailx\*O command to send such messges,
or make sure the message is preceded by a blank line.
.SH FILES
.PP
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L$HOME/mbox\*O"
Holds saved mail.
.LI "\*L$HOME/dead.letter\*O"
Holds unmailable text.
.LI "\*L/etc/passwd\*O"
Contains user information.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/mail/\*Vuser\*O"
Holds incoming mail for \*Vuser\*O.
.LI "\*L/usr/spool/mail/\*Vuser\*L.lock\*O"
Lock for mail directory.
.LE
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
Commands:  \*Llogin\*O(1), \*Lmailx\*O(1)/\*LMail\*O(1), \*Lsendmail\*O(8),
\*Lwrite\*O(1), \*Luucp\*O(1).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
