.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rsh.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.5.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/12/15 14:52:02 $
.\" 
...\" 
...\" (c) Copyright 1991, OPEN SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC.
...\" ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
...\" 
.TH rsh 1
.iX "rsh command"
.iX "executing commands remotely"
.iX "commands" "executing remotely"
.iX "remote" "command execution"
.SH NAME
.PP 
\*Lrsh\*O \- Executes the specified command at the remote host or logs into a remote host
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.PP 
.sS
\*Lrsh\*O
\*O[\*L-dn\*O]
\*O[\*L-l\*O
\*Vuser\*O]
\*Vremote_host\*O
\*O[\*Vcommand\*O]
\*O[\*Vargument\*O
\&...]
.sE 
.PP
The remote shell command (\*Lrsh\*O) executes \*Vcommand\*O at the
\*Vremote_host\*O, or, if no command is specified, logs into
\*Vremote_host\*O.
.SH FLAGS
.PP 
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L-d\*O"
Turns on socket debugging (using \*Lsetsockopt()\*O) on the TCP sockets
used for communication with the remote host.
.LI "\*L-l\*O \*Vuser\*O" 
Specifies that \*Lrsh\*O is to log into the remote host as
\*Vuser\*O instead of the local username.  If this flag is not
specified, the local and remote usernames are the same.
.LI "\*L-n\*O" 
Redirects any input for \*Lrsh\*O to the \*L/dev/null\*O device.
Use this flag if you are in C shell and run \*Lrsh\*O in the background.
.LE 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
The \*Lrsh\*O command sends standard input from the local host
to the remote command and receives standard output and standard error from
the remote command.  If you do not specify a
command, \*Lrsh\*O executes \*Lrlogin\*O instead.
.PP 
If you do not specify the \*L-l\*O flag, the local username is
used at the remote host.  If \*L-l\*O \*Vuser\*O is
entered, the specified username is used at the remote host.  In
either case, the remote host allows access only if at least one of
the following conditions is satisfied:
.ML  
.LI 
The local user ID is not superuser, and
the name of the local host is listed as an equivalent host
in the remote \*L/etc/hosts\&.equiv\*O file.
.LI
If either the local user ID is superuser or the
check of \*L/etc/hosts\&.equiv\*O fails, the remote user's home directory
must contain a \*L$HOME/\&.rhosts\*O file
that lists the local host and username.
.LE 
.PP 
For security reasons, any \*L$HOME/\&.rhosts\*O file must
be owned by either the remote user or the root user, and
only the owner should have Read and Write access.
.PP 
In addition to the preceding conditions, \*Lrsh\*O also allows access
to the remote host if the remote user account does not have a password
defined.  However, for security reasons, use of a password on all
user accounts is recommended.
.PP 
While the remote command is executing, pressing the Interrupt,
Terminate, or Quit key sequences sends the corresponding signal to the remote
process.  However, pressing the Stop key sequence stops only the local process.
Normally, when the remote command terminates, the local \*Lrsh\*O
process terminates.
.PP 
To have shell metacharacters interpreted on the remote host, place the
metacharacters inside "" (double quotes).
Otherwise, the metacharacters are interpreted by the local shell.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP 
In the following examples, the local host \*Lhost1\*O is
listed in the \*L/etc/hosts\&.equiv\*O
file at the remote host \*Lhost2\*O.
.AL 3m 
.LI
To check the amount of free disk space on the remote
host \*Lhost2\*O, enter:
.iS
$ rsh host2 df
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To append a remote file to another file on the remote host,
place the >> metacharacters in "" (double quotes):
.iS
$ rsh host2 cat test1 ">>" test2
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To append a remote file at the remote host to a local file, omit
the double quotes:
.iS
$ rsh host2 cat test2 >> test3
\*O\c
.iE
.LI
To append a remote file to a local file and use a remote user's
permissions at the remote host, use the \*L-l\*O flag:
.iS
$ rsh host2 -l jane cat test4 >> test5
\*O\c
.iE
.LE 
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Lrsh\*O command is confused by output generated by commands
in a \*L\&.cshrc\*O file on the remote host.  In particular,
the messages, \*Cwhere are you?\*O
and \*Cstty: Can't assign requested address\*O can result if output
is generated by the startup file.
.SH FILES
.PP 
.VL 11m
.LI "\*L/etc/hosts\&.equiv\*O"
Specifies remote hosts from which users can execute commands on the local
host (provided these users have an account on the local host).
.LI "\*L$HOME/\&.rhosts\*O" 
Specifies remote users that can use a local user account.
.LE 
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP 
Commands:  \*Lrcp\*O(1), \*Lrlogin\*O(1), \*Lrshd\*O(8), \*Ltelnet\*O(1).
.PP 
Functions:  \*Lrexec\*O(3).
.PP 
Files:  \*Lrhosts\*O(4).
.EQ
delim off
.EN
