.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: xconsole.1X,v $ $Revision: 1.2.6.2 $ (DEC) $Date: 1993/09/17 23:58:11 $
.\" 
.TH xconsole 1X "" "" "" "X11R5"
.SH NAME
dxconsole, xconsole - monitor system console messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta 8n
\f3dxconsole\fP | \f3xconsole\fP	[-\f2toolkitoption\fP ...] [-file \f2file-name\fP]
[-notify] [-stripNonprint] [-daemon] [-verbose] [-exitOnFail]
[-motif] [-stdin] [-maxSize n] [-buttons] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f3dxconsole\fP and \f3xconsole\fP programs display messages that are
usually sent to \f3/dev/console\fP.
.PP
By default, \f3xconsole\fP presents the Athena interface and
\f3dxconsole\fP presents the Motif interface.
.SH OPTIONS
The \f3dxconsole\fP and \f3xconsole\fP programs accept all of the
standard X Toolkit command line options along with the additional options
listed below:
.TP 8
.B \-file \f2file-name\fP
To monitor some other device, use this option to specify the device name.
This does not work on regular files as they are always ready to be read from.
.TP 8
.B \-notify \-nonotify
When new data are received from the console and the notify option is set,
the icon name of the application has " *" appended, so that it is evident
even when the application is iconified.  \-notify is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-daemon
This option causes \f3dxconsole\fP
or \f3xconsole\fP
to place itself in the background, using fork/exit.
.TP 8
.B \-verbose
When set, this option directs \f3dxconsole\fP
or \f3xconsole\fP
to display an informative message in the first line of the text buffer.
.TP 8
.B \-exitOnFail
When set, this option directs \f3dxconsole\fP
or \f3xconsole\fP
to exit when it is unable to redirect the console output.
.TP 8
.B \-motif
When set, this option causes the Motif interface to be presented.
(This option is always set in \f3dxconsole\fP.)
.TP 8
.B \-stdin -nostdin
This option directs \f3xconsole\fP to read from stdin as well as
\f3/dev/console\fP (default in \f3dxconsole\fP).
.TP 8
.B \-maxSize
This option establishes the maximum amount (in characters) to be
displayed.  The default is 32768.
.TP 8
.B \-buttons -nobuttons
This option governs whether clear and dismiss buttons appear.  Applies
only to the Motif interface and is set by default.
.SH X DEFAULTS
This program uses the Athena Text widget. Look in the Athena Widget Set
documentation for information on how to control it.
.PP
When presenting a Motif interface, this program uses the Motif Text
widget.
.SH WIDGETS
In order to specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of
the widgets that compose \f3xconsole\f1 and \f3dxconsole\fP.  In the
notation below, indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  The
widget class name is given first, followed by the widget instance name.
.sp
.nf
.TA .5i 
.ta .5i 
XConsole  xconsole
	XConsole  text
.fi
.sp
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/XConsole - specifies required resources
.br
/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/DXConsole - specifies required resources
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1X), xrdb(1X), Athena Text widget, Motif Text widget
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \f3X(1X)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard (MIT X Consortium)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
