.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH cda 4
.SH NAME
\*LCDA\*O \- Compound Document Architecture
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "CDA (Compound Document Architecture)"
Digital's CDA(TM) architecture is an enabling technology for the creation and
storage of compound documents and tabular data encompassing multiple
interchange formats, services, and applications.
.PP
The CDA architecture defines two document formats and a mail syntax for
the sharing and transport of revisable compound document and tabular file
formats:
.ML
.LI
DDIF(TM) (Digital Document Interchange Format) is the interchange and
application file format for compound documents containing text, graphics,
images, and audio.
.LI
DTIF(TM) (Digital Table Interchange Format) is the interchange and
application file format for tabular data, such as spreadsheets and
multidimensional tables.
.LI
DOTS (Data Object Transport Syntax) is a transparent interface for
the transfer of compound documents with external links to multiple
subfiles via mail systems.
.LE
.PP
DDIF, DTIF, and DOTS are based on DDIS (Digital Data Interchange Syntax),
an ASN.1 syntax that conforms to the specifications of International
Standards Organization Abstract Syntax Notation One (ISO ASN.1).
.PP
DEC CDA Run-Time Services provides
the facilities for CDA applications to create, store, interchange, and
display CDA-supported compound document and tabular file formats. The
run-time environment includes the following:
.ML
.LI
A library of callable routines used by
applications capable of reading and writing DDIF (Digital Document
Interchange Format) and DTIF (Digital Table Interchange Format) files and
invoking CDA converters.
.LI
A command line interface to display and convert revisable compound document
and tabular files from one format to another using the run-time converters.
A windows-based CDA Viewer provides the option to display CDA
documents on DEC OSF/1 systems which have installed
DECwindows Motif.
.LE
.PP
DEC CDA Run-Time Services are available in the OSFCDABASE and OSFXCDA
subsets of the DEC OSF/1 kit or in the DEC CDA Run-Time
Services layered product.
.PP
For more information on converting files, refer to manpages for the
\*Lcdoc\*O
command, cda_msg, and run-time converters: ddifanls, ddifps,
ddiftext, dtifddif, dtifanls, and textddif.
.PP
For more information on viewing files, refer to manpages for the
\*Lvdoc\*O
and
\*Ldxvdoc\*O
commands, dvr_msg, and cda_msg.
.PP
Network services such as DECwindows Motif mail, DECnet(TM), the File
Transfer Protocol, DEC(TM) MAILworks(TM), PATHWORKS(TM), and ACA(TM)
LiveLinks(TM) support transfer of CDA documents among key NAS(TM)
platforms: VMS(TM) and ULTRIX(TM) DECwindows(TM) Motif(R), Sun(TM)
SPARCstations(TM), DEC OSF/1 (R), MS-DOS(R) Microsoft(R) Windows(TM), and
OS/2(TM). For more information, refer to manpages for DOTS and the
\*Ldtoc\*O
and
\*Lctod\*O
commands.
.PP
There are a number of Digital and third-party CDA-capable applications
currently available on DEC OSF/1 DECwindows Motif and other
platforms. See your Digital sales representative for further information.
.PP
Sun and SPARCstation are trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.PP
Motif and OSF/1 are registered trademarks of Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
MS-DOS and Microsoft are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation.
.PP
Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.
.PP
ACA, CDA, DDIF, DEC MAILworks, DEC, DECnet, DECwindows, DTIF, LiveLinks,
NAS, PATHWORKS, ULTRIX, VMS, and the Digital logo are trademarks of Digital
Equipment Corporation.
.PP
OS/2 is a trademark of International Business Machines Corporation.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
cdoc(1), ctod(1), ddifanls(1), ddifps(1), ddiftext(1), dtifanls(1),
dtifddif(1), dtoc(1), dxvdoc(1X), textddif(1), vdoc(1),
cda_msg(4), ddif(4), ddis(4), dots(4), dtif(4), dvr_msg(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
