.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH DDIF 4
.SH NAME
\*LDDIF\*O \- Digital Document Interchange Format files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "Digital Document Interchange Format"
.PP
DDIF(TM) is the CDA(TM) interchange, storage, and application file format
for revisable compound documents containing multiple data types including
text, graphics, images, and audio. DDIF compound documents can dynamically
link to DTIF(TM) (Digital Table Interchange Format) files for automatic update
via ACA(TM) LiveLinks(TM).
.PP
DDIF compound documents can be displayed and printed on a variety of
devices, including text-only terminals or PCs (character-cell) and imaging
and WYSIWYG terminals (windows workstations and PCs).
.PP
DOTS (Data Object Transport Syntax) and network services such as DECwindows
Motif mail,
DECnet(TM), the File Transfer Protocol, DEC MAILworks(TM),
PATHWORKS(TM), and ACA LiveLinks support transfer of DDIF compound
documents among key NAS(TM) platforms: VMS(TM) and ULTRIX(TM)
DECwindows(TM) Motif(R), X
windows on Sun(TM) SPARCstations(TM), DEC(TM) OSF/1(R), MS-DOS(R) Microsoft(R)
Windows(TM), and OS/2(TM). For more information, refer to manpages for DOTS
and the
\*Ldtoc\*O and \*Lctod\*O commands.
.PP
DEC CDA Run-Time Services provides the facilities
for CDA applications to create, store, interchange, and display
CDA-supported compound document and tabular file formats. For more
information on CDA enabling technologies and the DEC CDA Run-Time Services,
refer to the CDA manpage.
.PP
Sun and SPARCstation are trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.PP
Motif and OSF/1 are registered trademarks of Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
MS-DOS and Microsoft are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation.
.PP
Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.
.PP
ACA, CDA, DDIF, DEC MAILworks, DEC, DECnet, DECwindows, DTIF, LiveLinks,
NAS, PATHWORKS, ULTRIX, VMS, and the Digital logo are trademarks of Digital
Equipment Corporation.
.PP
OS/2 is a trademark of International Business Machines Corporation.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
cdoc(1), ctod(1), ddifanls(1), ddifps(1), ddiftext(1), dtifanls(1),
dtifddif(1), dtoc(1), dxvdoc(1X), textddif(1), vdoc(1), cda(4),
cda_msg(4), ddis(4), dots(4), dtif(4), dvr_msg(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
