.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH DDIS 4
.SH NAME
\*LDDIS\*O, \*Lddis\*O \- Digital Data Interchange Syntax / ISO ASN.1 (DDIS/ASN.1) files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "DDIS"
.iX "Digital Data Interchange Syntax"
.iX "ISO ASN.1 (DDIS/ASN.1) files"
DDIS is an ASN.1 syntax that conforms to the specifications of
International Standards Organization Abstract Syntax Notation One (ISO
ASN.1).
.PP
Digital's CDA architecture defines two document formats and a mail syntax
for the sharing and transport of revisable compound documents and tabular
files based on the DDIS syntax that is a subset of ASN.1:
.ML
.LI
DDIF (Digital Document Interchange Format) is the interchange and
application file format for compound documents containing text, graphics,
images, and audio.
.LI
DTIF (Digital Table Interchange Format) is the interchange and
application file format for tabular data, such as spreadsheets and
multi-dimensional tables.
.LI
DOTS (Data Object Transport Syntax) is a transparent interface for
the transfer of compound documents with external links to multiple
subfiles via mail systems.
.LE
.PP
CDA-supported files that conform to one of the DDIS/ASN.1 family of
syntaxes are typed according to a particular DDIS/ASN.1 syntax. For
example, a DDIF file is identified by the
.cs
file
command as a ddis/ddif file.
.PP
For more information on CDA enabling technologies and the DEC
CDA Run-Time Services, refer to the CDA manpage.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
cdoc(1), ctod(1), ddifanls(1), ddifps(1), ddiftext(1), dtifanls(1),
dtifddif(1), dtoc(1), dxvdoc(1X), textddif(1), vdoc(1),
cda(4), cda_msg(4), ddif(4), dots(4), dtif(4), dvr_msg(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
