.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1994      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.TH dtif 4
.SH NAME
\*Ldtif\*O, \*LDTIF\*O \- Digital Table Interchange Format
.SH DESCRIPTION
.iX "DTIF reference page"
DTIF(TM) is the CDA(TM) interchange, storage, and application file format for
tabular data such as spreadsheets, database information, and multidimensional
tables. DTIF tables contain rows and columns of cells in which the
application stores data as absolute values and formulas. Application- and
user-specified presentation attributes (such as fonts, borders, and
bolding) determine formatting when displaying or printing a sequence of one
or more DTIF tables. 
.PP
DTIF files can be dynamically linked to and updated from within DDIF(TM)
compound documents via ACA(TM) LiveLinks(TM). DTIF-supported file formats
can also be converted to CDA output documents for the purpose of including
tabular data in the form of text within reports or other documents.
Formulas and presentation attributes such as cell borders, headers, grid
lines, and font types will be lost, however. For more information on CDA
table-to-document file conversions and processing options, refer to the
dtifddif manpage.
.PP
DTIF files can be displayed and printed on a variety of devices, including
text-only terminals or PCs (character-cell) and imaging and WYSIWYG
terminals (windows workstations and PCs).
.PP
DOTS (Data Object Transport Syntax) and network services such as DECwindows
Motif mail,
DECnet(TM), the File Transfer Protocol, DEC MAILworks(TM),
PATHWORKS(TM), and ACA LiveLinks 
support transfer of DTIF files among key NAS(TM) platforms: VMS(TM)
DECwindows(TM) Motif(R), DEC(TM)
OSF/1(R), MS-DOS(R) Microsoft(R) Windows(TM), and OS/2(TM). For
more information, refer to manpages for DOTS and the
\*Ldtoc\*O and \*Lctod\*O commands.
.PP
DEC CDA Run-Time Services provides the facilities
for CDA applications to create, store, interchange, and display
CDA-supported compound document and tabular file formats. For more
information on CDA enabling technologies and the DEC CDA Run-Time Services,
refer to the CDA manpage.
.PP
Sun and SPARCstation are trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.PP
Motif and OSF/1 are registered trademarks of Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.PP
MS-DOS and Microsoft are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation.
.PP
Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.
.PP
ACA, CDA, DDIF, DEC MAILworks, DEC, DECnet, DECwindows, DTIF, LiveLinks,
NAS, PATHWORKS, VMS, and the Digital logo are trademarks of Digital
Equipment Corporation.
.PP
OS/2 is a trademark of International Business Machines Corporation.
.SH SEE ALSO 
.PP
\*Lcdoc\*O(1), \*Lctod\*O(1), \*Ldtifanls\*O(1),
\*Ldtifddif\*O(1), \*Ldtoc\*O(1), \*Lcda\*O(4), \*Lddif\*O(4), \*Lddis\*O(4),
\*Ldots\*O(4)
.EQ
delim off
.EN
